[[0.2 - Apply Object Oriented Programming Language Skills]]
Polymorphism is the ability of an object to take on different forms. In C++, polymorphism can be achieved through inheritance, where a derived class inherits the properties and methods of its base class. This allows the derived class to override the base class's methods, or to add new methods.

To use polymorphism to enable easy code extension in C++, you can create a base class that defines the common functionality of all the derived classes. The derived classes can then override the base class's methods to provide specialized functionality. This way, you can easily add new derived classes without having to modify the base class.

For example, consider the following code:

C++

```
class Animal {
public:
    virtual void speak() = 0; // pure virtual function
};

class Dog : public Animal {
public:
    void speak() override {
        cout << "Woof!" << endl;
    }
};

class Cat : public Animal {
public:
    void speak() override {
        cout << "Meow!" << endl;
    }
};

int main() {
    Animal* animal = new Dog();
    animal->speak(); // prints "Woof!"

    animal = new Cat();
    animal->speak(); // prints "Meow!"
}
```

Use code with caution. [Learn more](https://bard.google.com/faq#coding)

content_copy

In this code, the `Animal` class is the base class. It defines a pure virtual function called `speak()`. This means that any class that inherits from `Animal` must also define the `speak()` function.

The `Dog` and `Cat` classes are derived classes from `Animal`. They override the `speak()` function to provide different implementations.

In the `main()` function, we create a pointer to an `Animal` object. We then assign the pointer to a `Dog` object and a `Cat` object. When we call the `speak()` function on the pointer, the appropriate implementation is called, depending on the type of object that the pointer is pointing to.

This is how polymorphism can be used to enable easy code extension in C++. By creating a base class with common functionality, and then deriving specialized classes from the base class, you can easily add new functionality without having to modify the base class.

In the above example, if we wanted to add a new derived class called `Bird`, we would only need to create the `Bird` class and override the `speak()` function. We would not need to modify the `Animal` class.

Polymorphism can be a powerful tool for designing and implementing object-oriented software. By understanding how polymorphism works, you can write code that is more flexible and extensible.